What is WiFi, and where is it used? The world of modern telecommunication technology is awash with acronyms, long numbers and other weird bits of code that few people understand. But 'WiFi' doesn't really stand for wireless fidelity. Using this standard, computers and other devices can link in a wireless local area network WLAN , which is a number of computers or computer-like devices that can talk to each other using high-frequency radio waves instead of connecting cables. The WLAN can in turn be hooked into the internet, usually with the aid of a cable. Basically, then, WiFi is a generic name for the main method by which a WLAN is set up. But the term WiFi, as well as the technology itself, has evolved quite a bit since it was first coined in about 2000 and is now used more broadly, particularly by the general public, to mean a wide range of wireless communication technologies. WiFi uses Perhaps the most visible manifestation of WiFi is the coffee-shop laptop tuned cordlessly into a WLAN and hence into the worldwide web, but some phone users might also be doing it by WiFi. VoIP 'voice over the internet protocol' phones enable users to speak to others via the internet. The increasing availability of WiFi means that people with VoIP phones can use them more and more like mobile phones, talking with friends and colleagues over the internet from the same coffee-shop in which they connect their laptops to the worldwide web. WiFi is used in many other applications as well. Some televisions are going WiFi, allowing viewers to wander about their houses with their own portable screens. One company recently offered a camera that connects to the internet via WiFi, allowing people to email photos to friends and colleagues directly from their cameras. A more mundane but widespread use of WiFi is in communication between computers and peripheral devices such as printers and projectors. The great advantage of WiFi over wired networks is that it does not require wires to connect it to a network. Potentially, WiFi and other wireless technologies could be made available everywhere to everyone, not only helping a business person on the move but also remote communities that might otherwise wait years for cables to reach them. How does it work? WiFi equipment works by radio waves, which have a very wide and increasingly sought-after range of frequencies. If the world of communication technology is awash with acronyms, the radio wave spectrum is increasingly jammed with signals as different kinds of devices try to communicate with each other. Extremely low frequencies of 3—30 hertz or cycles per second are used for radio communications with submarines; the wavelengths can be thousands of kilometres in length. In contrast, WiFi equipment uses radio waves in the frequency ranges 2. The ranges are classified by the International Telecommunication Union as 'super high frequency' and is much higher than the frequency used for AM radio 300—3000 kilohertz , short-wave radio 3—30 megahertz — MHz , and FM radio and television broadcasting both 30—300 MHz. It is also generally a little higher than the frequency used for mobile phones and two-way radios 300 MHz to 3 GHz. Telstra's new Next G system, which allows high-speed wireless internet connections, operates at 850 MHz. Other devices that use radio waves in the super high frequency range include microwaves, automatic roller-doors and cordless phones. Bluetooth, a form of wireless technology normally used for very short-range communication between devices such as a laptop and a personal digital assistant PDA , operates at about 2. At the epicentre of a common WiFi set-up involving personal or laptop computers is a wireless access point, connected by hardwire to the internet. A router converts digital information in the form of 1s and 0s into radio waves, and transmits these via an antenna. It can also receive radio waves and convert these to digital data, which it can then send to the internet via its hardwire connection. Laptop computers or other devices within range using the same WiFi protocol can communicate with the access point and, through it, connect to the internet. The protocol is important. If the laptop and router are to communicate, it is important that they speak the same language. Compatibility between electronic devices is one of the industry's great challenges, and it has been achieved in the current generation of WiFi devices through the adoption of a standard developed by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE to define the way WiFi equipment operates. This standard, IEEE 802. Each area in which WiFi is available is called a 'hotspot' Box 1: Hotspots and meshes. Where is WiFi heading? WiFi has become very popular very quickly, to the point that in certain sectors of the economy it is almost a prerequisite for doing business. Some hotels would probably lose custom if they didn't offer WiFi to their guests, who expect to be able to log on before they nod off. WiFi-less coffee shops might be bypassed by laptop-toting latte drinkers wanting to connect while they caffeinate. The number of uses to which WiFi could be put is almost limitless. In the home, electrical equipment such as the refrigerator, television, lighting system, microwave and stereo equipment could all be linked and regulated by WiFi. The technology also has exciting possibilities in environmental science Box 2: Remote sensors and their applications. But perhaps the single greatest advantage of wireless networks over wired technologies is that they are more flexible about the infrastructure required to set them up. That's why community groups have latched onto them, and it is also why they are being pursued in developing countries, where they can be used to bypass the very expensive business of laying cables. WiFi technology is not without problems, security being one of the biggest Box 3: Security and encryption. But few people think it is a passing fad. So where is WiFi heading? Predicting the evolution of information technology is not easy, especially given its current extraordinary rate of change: this month's boom product might be next month's landfill. But a few things about WiFi seem certain: speeds will increase ,the range of uses to which it is put will broaden and its availability will continue to spread. It will also face more competition. Keeping tuned The array of wireless technology already in use can be confusing. Consumers have a huge range of choices but often insufficient information on which to base their purchasing decisions. Can your laptop do WiFi and WiMAX, and does it need to? What does the shop assistant mean when she asks if you want a PDA with bluetooth? Do you need a WiFi rice-cooker? The proliferation of the technology does have one advantage: if you don't understand it and want to find out what it all means, you can at least research it — from almost anywhere! savannah stretched almost the whole of Africa south of Sahara. A characteristic feature of the giraffe - one of the most beautiful mammals - a long neck, the size of which can reach 2.5 meters! And what should have such a long-necked animal to not only proudly carry on the shoulders of his wonderful neck, but also to live a full life with her? It turns out that because of it, all in setting up a special giraffe. That - and a powerful heart, circulatory system and a unique and special valves in blood vessels of the neck and porous tissue beneath the brain, and a special respiratory system, etc. Not having such important systems and devices, without coherent long-necked giraffe of them at once would have died, barely bending toward the water. In the body of the giraffe's all so interconnected with each other, which should be "projected" from the beginning in a single complex. Operation of one without the other is impossible. In addition, the genetic program takes into account all the behavioral characteristics of this graceful animal. Consider these questions in detail.
Amazing neck The giraffe is the tallest of the existing animals. Its growth may reach 5.8 m, and almost half of the height of the falls on the neck. Giraffe - mammal, hence its common anatomical structure is largely similar to that of other members of this group of animals. As the vast majority of animals, as well as in humans, giraffes have seven neck vertebrae, but his spine is stretched. It is believed that once were common in giraffes neck, although some of them were still neck a little longer. With the onset of the drought became less food and higher giraffes, more long-necked, and were able to reach the leaves of the tree tops. Therefore likely to survive and have offspring they had more. But what's interesting: a young giraffe neck is much shorter, not only compared with older animals, but also in comparison with those animals, which because of their short necks in this selection was denied the right to life. According to this young giraffe, is not able to reach the tops of trees in a drought, it also had to die. Then on Earth is unlikely to have survived these amazing animals. It should be noted that there are no fossils, which can be traced a gradual increase in the giraffe's neck. But in Africa to this day lives, another representative zhirafovyh - okapi. At the height is not more than five feet, and with his short-necked lives for centuries the most fulfilling lives. Sleep these majestic animals, the owners of the world's longest living neck, a little, and besides standing. If giraffes still lie, for a long time satisfied his head, trying to put her on the back foot, curving arc of the neck, or lean it against the ground. The uniqueness of the circulatory and respiratory systems As the giraffe's head is so far away from the body, he was given an unusually large heart and a great cardio-vascular system. It all provides for a continuous supply to the brain, located at 3 m above the heart, enough oxygenated blood. High blood pressure. For pumping blood through a long neck, the body has to create a very high pressure, which in higher animals depends on the resistance of the heart and blood vessels. Blood pressure in giraffe are far higher than that of other animals. It was 340/230 mm Hg. of Art. (For comparison, in most animals the blood pressure recorded in the horse - 190/120 mm Hg. Art., The salamander is quite low - 22/12 mmHg And a healthy man of his size is 120/80, that is blood pressure in the aorta 120 and the veins - 80 mm Hg. Art.) A unique system of arteries. In order to cope with all the serious problems that might arise from such a high blood pressure, giraffes are provided with a number of unique systems and devices. This includes a complete system of arteries with thickened walls, various valves, the smallest network of blood vessels, as well as with receptors evaluators blood pressure. So, thanks!